When you first tried your boots on, did they fit? At
that time, there were two, really just two
bootmakers. There was Hollick and Lucchese out of
San Antonio.
I don't know, other than the fact that Hollick
would keep them shined all year and we bought them
from him, I'm sure they were about the same price.
But Lucchese was really the only other maker. But
that's keeping them shining all year was a pretty
good thing. About how often when you were a
student, about your senior year, about how often
did you wear your boots? Mainly just on drill days.
We only drilled once a week or parades. Now did you
go to summer camp? I sure did. Where'd you go to?
Fort Crockett, down in Galveston. Describe that
summer camp experience. Tell me as much as you can
remember about it. Well, there's one part of it
I'll never forget. When I was going to school, I had
acne on the back of my neck real bad, and a lot of
times I'd have to have those things lanced. It was
just like a rising.
Part of the time I was in A&M I got an excuse not to
wear a tie because I couldn't button my collar. But
anyhow, one morning I decided I needed to go to sick
call to get my one of those things lanced. I went
over on sick call and the old colonel looked at me
and said, put him in the hospital. The way they got
their money was the number of patients they had in
the hospital. Haskell, I was in that thing three
damn days. Never did open that thing. And I carried
meals to the patients. I shined the doorknobs. I
cleaned the restrooms. Did everything in the
world. And I thought, why in the world am I in this
place? And the first night they put me in there, it
was about full, and they put me in the prison ward.
And in the middle of the night, they brought a
prisoner in there who was drunk. And they put him in
there and closed the door. And we didn't have air
conditioning, and the mosquitoes were terrible.
And I lay there with those mosquitoes sailing at me
and wondering, now why am I in this darn place? Now
that's one of the things I remember about summer
camp. What did they, what did they, how did they
train you all? Oh, we had rifle practice. We had,
they had some big 12-inch guns there at that time on
the seawall. And the fort, is that one located near
the middle of the seawall? Yeah, there's a big
restaurant there now and the embankments are
still there where the guns were. There was two big
12-inch guns and living quarters underneath for
all the gun crews and ammunition and all that.
About how many People were stationed there full
time? Oh, I wouldn't have any idea. But a hundred
or? Oh, I expect there may have been more than that
because there was a complement for those big guns.
But not a thousand? Oh, I don't imagine. There was
about, as I remember, about two three-story
dormitories and that's where they lived. And how
many of y'all were there for the summer? Well, it
was all the senior Coast Artillery people.
Nationwide? No, no. Oh. A&M. A&M. I don't think
there was any other schools there but us. I expect
there was 150 of us, I imagine. And you were there
for? Six weeks. Six weeks. Six weeks. What did you
and your buddies do for a good time in Galveston?
Well, one thing, we'd walk around in the red light
district at night and listen to the gals hollering
at you. On Post Office Street. Uh-huh. And, oh,
they had some of the best seafood eating places on
the seawall. You could get a shrimp cocktail that
big for 25 cents. You're saying as big as a big salad
plate. That's right. Were there gambling places
in Galveston then?
Later there was. I don't think it must have been
later. I'm not sure it was at that time. Of course,
I'm sure I know everyone out there. I don't know
whether I know where they were, but it wasn't long
after that. Now did you and your buddies put on your
bathing suits and go over and enjoy the beach? Oh
yeah, all the time. And one Sunday morning, Askel,
there was not one wave out there. And you don't see
that very often. There wasn't an ounce of breeze,
and that thing was just as flat as this floor. You
ever see a lot of water like that? I never seen it
before or after. And hot, it wasn't any fun being
out there. Of course, the fun of the waves, you
know.
When you were at summer camp, how well prepared had
A&M made you for active duty? Did you feel fairly
well prepared? Well, I think we did. We only had one
more year, you know. The things we studied, as I've
said before, we studied gunnery, studied small
rifles,
several of the bigger pieces of artillery, the
six-inch guns, 75 millimeters. They showed us how
you take them apart and how you clean them and how
they're fired. We never fired any of the bigger
guns, but we did fire the rifles. Did they talk to
y'all that summer about what y'all might be doing
if you were called to active duty? Not really. One
interesting thing about it, when I was called to
active duty, that's right where we went back to is
Fort Crockett. They were building an army camp out
of Galveston called Fort Crockett, I mean Fort,
Camp Wallace. Camp Wallace, uh-huh. It was 10, 15
miles up Highway 6 from Galveston, but it wasn't
ready. So our unit, and there was about 3,000,
ultimately in our unit, but they took all the
officers and we went down to Fort Crockett and some
of the regular army officers called themselves
orient and that's for active duty. That was a
couple of months. Now meanwhile, academically,
you're making progress. As you look back, what
were the key courses you took at A&M, the ones that
were most important to you in your professional
life? Are you talking about my My civilian life or
Army life? No, your civilian. The summer
surveying was one of them. Is that right? Six weeks
of summer surveying. And you know civil engineers
don't take any surveying anymore, I understand.
Another one that was very interesting was what
they call structures. We had a structure there. I
can almost call his name, and he was super. He had
the best notes that you ever did see of, you know,
like railroad bridges and trusses. this sort of
thing and that was a real interesting course that
to figure if you take one of these big railroad
trusses as to what stresses in this beam and what
stresses in this and this and all and he could cut
one of those things and tell you exactly whether
it's tension or compression or you know that was
that was interesting. And you never did think
about changing your major? No. Got stronger and
stronger. That's right. And when you were an
undergraduate, what were you hoping you were
going to get to do? Go to the highway department.
That's what I really wanted to do. And when I got
out, the highway department had a blanket offer to
take all civil engineers that graduated from A&M.
A good many of us did. Who are some of the teachers
that you now realize were most important to you?
Well, this fellow Sandstead, Mac New, Joe Orr. Joe
Orr was, he was the survey man. That was his baby.
And then we had a number of courses in, I don't know
what to call it, but I guess you could call it
administration. you know, as if you were going to
be in administrative offices, you know, how to
handle people and how to get along with compadres
and how to get along with the public and this sort of
thing. I think that was very beneficial. Did any
faculty member ever give you any personal advice
that you later realized was very important? What
to do or not to do? I think they probably were if I
could come up with some of them. I
think Joe Orr was one of the ones that sort of aimed
us toward the Highway Department. Joe was a
student of the Highway Department because of the
surveying.
Mm-hm.
Let's see, talking about linking things
together,
as you look at your professional life after
leaving A&M, what did you learn at A&M that was very
important to you in your professional life? What
did you get from A&M that turned out to be
significant, important? Well, one thing is,
getting along with a fellow man.
Aggies were noted for being buddies and getting
along with each other. Of course, a lot of it was
forced on them, but I think that was one of the
things. Let me...
One specific thing. This unit that I was called
active duty with, was very unusual. The enlisted
and non-commissioned people were black and the
officers were white. And there were 100 officers
called in that unit and 65 of them were A&M
graduates.
And we had a better record. We had better overall
discipline. A lot of that type of units had worlds
of trouble, worlds of trouble. And we had better
discipline. We had less troubles. I think our
relationship officer to enlisted men was much
better because so many of us were used to these
people. We were used to dealing with them. And we
were those Four years. Four years. Now, where did
you serve during WWII? Well, in the States, four
years. After we were activated and got together
down at Camp Wallace, we were moved to Camp Davis,
North Carolina, right outside of Wilmington. You
got it done? Uh-huh. She had a little skin tear on
her left arm. We're talking about A&M
and how well you were prepared. How well did it
prepare you to be a highway engineer?
Well,
that's really hard to say.
People who wanted to work for the highway
department started right on the low end of the
totem pole. I was on the back end of a measuring
chain, driving stakes and whatever. I think, here
again, it just prepared me to get educated and take
advantage of people who were willing to share with
me. But when you began as a highway engineer, Was
the preparation you had had at A&M up to date? Oh,
yeah, sure.
The main thing I used right off was the surveying
that Joe Orr had emphasized. And then from there
on, then I began to get assignments where I had some
supervisor responsibilities and a few design
responsibilities. Now, what other schools had
high-quality highway programs then? Was A&M
clearly the best? Well, it got most of the
students, as I'm told.
Well, probably Texas got about as many as A&M did,
but according to the highway department, A&M The
Texas civil engineers were the ones they
preferred, or at least it seemed to be that's where
they had the most of them from. But it's really hard
to say. You know, you look back and you wonder,
where did I learn so-and-so? Or, you know,
something comes along. In fact, I heard one of my
instructors one time said, one of these days
you'll make some kind of a decision and you'll
think, now where did I learn to do that? And I guess
that's right. You wonder, where was it that you
learned what caused you to make this sort of a
thing? And I guess it's the overall education that
does it. Also, am I correct that had you not gone to
A&M, there's no other college you could have
afforded to gone to? That's correct. I wanted to
either.
Of course, I wanted the military part of it. That
was another one of my desires. I've always enjoyed
the military, Haskell. And N.M. prepared that
well, didn't he? He did. He did. And you know, I even
followed it after the war. I stayed active. I
stayed active in the military. And you retired
what rank? Brigadier General. Brigadier
General. And as you saw all of the other ROTC
products, how well did A&M's officers compare
with the other ROTC officers? I don't think they
could hold light to them. There sure was a world of
people that wanted A&M graduates.
As you look back on A&M, what are the reasons why
Aggies have so much pride? Why are Aggies proud of
having gone to school here? That's a good
question.
I guess the easiest way to answer that is just the
reputation that A&M has got.
And of course the students are what make the
reputation, I guess. Are there some things that
pull people together to help create that
reputation?
Well, the Corps is one of the things that pulled a
lot of people together. And of course, in my day,
you had to be in the Corps. So you all felt somewhat
of the same feelings and interest in each other.
And are there symbols of that pulling together?
Yeah, sure. I guess that's the big thing. Ring?
Yeah. And boots? Boots and ring. Silver tabs?
Yeah. Football games? Yeah. I guess the one thing
is the ring. Like I told you, it's recognized
outside of A&M.
When you are no more, what's going to happen to your
ring? To whom does it go? To A&M, to the former
students. Okay. Have you ever seen that
collection? Oh, yes. That's marvelous.
Fantastic. Nothing like that anywhere else that I
know of. In the world. Right. And your senior
boots, you still have them. I have a country place
out over in Burleson County, and they're hanging
up in the building. Did you get a saber when you were
seen? Where is it? I let a friend of mine have it.
Actually it was back at the time, you remember when
they couldn't get sabers? Did you know there was a
time when they, and I let him have the saber. As you
were getting ready for your commencement in the
spring of 1940, you went through final review and
all that. Who came to, what loved ones, what
family? Well, my ultimate wife, my mother and
father, her mother and father, my brothers and
sisters, the whole family was there. They thought
that was pretty special. I was the first one of any
of my family that graduated from A&M. There's been
a bunch of them since. Right, and were lots of your
classmates first generation college students?
Were there lots of your buddies just like you where
mom and dad hadn't gone to college? I really don't
know, Haskell. I wouldn't, I expect there were,
but I just don't know, don't know about that. And do
you remember anything about commencement? Was it
held at Guyon Hall? Mm-hmm. And was everybody
there? Oh, it was full. And was your name called?
Did you ever see the old guy in the hall? Oh, yes. Was
your name called and your hand shaken? Mm-hmm. I
guess by President Walton, by Walton I'm sure,
because I think he was still there at that time. And
then the commandant that issued me my commission.
It was a special day. As soon as you graduated, did
you have orders to report for active duty? No.
Didn't have that until nine months later. I had my
offer for the Texas Highway Department. And how
much was that offer? $125. A month? A month. What
did you think about that salary? Well, it was the
most I'd ever had. And where was you? Hearn. In
Hearn? Hearn. So you could still live at home? No, I
actually lived in Hearn. I boarded there until
Lucille and I were married, and then we lived in
Hearn. And when did you get married? August, after
I got out in June. Of 1940. August 10th. And you
rented a place in Hearn. How much did it cost? Well,
she and I, you mean when we married, $30 a month. It
was a bedroom and a, I guess we shared the bathroom
probably. And a little kitchen. And what were your
duties? at the highway department, I was put in a
field party, staking out center lines and running
drainage areas and setting slope stakes and this
sort of thing. And as I said, I was on the other end of
the chain, and the old boy that was on the front end
of it was about six feet two inches tall and had legs
about yea long. And we'd go across a plowed field,
and he could step from one top to the other top, and
I'd have to step on top, bottom, top. He liked to run
me to death. Now, for what highway were you all
surveying? Well, the first job I went out on, they
had just done the paving from north of Calvert to
Bremond, and we were doing the final estimates on
it. Then the next thing was a little spur up near
Buffalo, went off into, away from the highway. And
then it wasn't long after that until we were
building one north out of Fairfield. And then, of
course, we ultimately, Highway 6 and 290.
We had several counties that we worked out of. And
so you felt good about that job? I did. I was proud of
it. Worked like hell, I tell you. All right, we're
getting ready to kind of summarize this now. Based
on your experience of all sorts, if you were a
consultant to A&M today, to the leadership out
there, what advice would you give them about the
future of A&M? What would you advise them to do or
not to do?
Well,
I think a lot of emphasis needs to be put on
people being able to work together.
ability to supervise and not
drive people, but
give them incentives.
You know, the technical things now are all hard.
Like I told you a while ago, they don't teach
surveying anymore.
People learn to survey and that's all farmed out
now. Engineers don't do survey work anymore.
Probably to give a lot of emphasis to, I don't
know what I want to say really.
Given good leadership, I guess is what I'm trying
to say. Leadership, I think, is a real important
thing. I've worked in and around a few people that
didn't know how to supervise. And there could be a
lot of emphasis in the A&M structure on
administrative duties and responsibilities.
Okay. If you could make a major gift to A&M,
somebody hands you a check for a million dollars,
but you've got to pass that check on, but you can
decide what they do with it. What would your gift,
what would you want it to be for?
It would be hard to say. What would be your favorite
efforts, projects at A&M?
Well, I guess
opportunities for disadvantaged students and
students who were not able to pay for good
education. And by disadvantage, you're talking
about economics. Yeah, right. Would it matter
what they majored in? No, I don't think so. How
would you judge their capability? You mean the
individual's capability? What they could have
come. How do you pick this one instead of that one?
Well, a lot of it I'd have to look back on their high
school education and their high school
administrators. I think that would be a key
figure. You know, you got to sort of see how they
came up and whether they would take advantage of
what you could offer them or not. And I don't really
know how you do that. to the best advantage, but...
Would it matter what the student was going to major
in? No. Because, you know, the world needs all
vocations. All right. To what, as you look back, to
what people associated with Texas A&M, faculty,
students, administrators, do you feel most
grateful?
A couple of them are Mr. Hensel and Mr. Horsley for
providing me the opportunity to help myself. And
then there was a few of the instructors that
had lots to do with it. And then, not from A&M, but
from my parents making it available to me. A lot of
parents don't even, don't do that. But those two
people really made it possible for me to go to
school with A&M. What have we left out? I've only
got one more question, unless you can think of some
things we've left out. What have we not covered? Do
you remember any goofy moments? Any sad moments?
I
remember one thing, and I didn't know whether I was
going to tell you this or not.
I found out that it doesn't pay to let some other
student see your work.
And this was in Cuball Rich's class. An old boy
copied off my paper on an examination, and he
busted both of us. But you didn't know he was
copying? No. And he told us, you know, that two
papers are too much alike, and he said if one will
admit who did the copying, I'll give the other the
grade, and he wouldn't do it. But that was one of the
worst moments I ever got, and I decided right then
You know, I really, I guess I didn't really care if
somebody wanted to do it that way, but I found out
that it didn't pay. I wanted to whip his butt, but I
had to take it over that summer. And you didn't have
any tragic, any real great sad moments? No, not
really. What about, were you ever involved in any
pranks or jokes or anything like that? No. Here, as
I said, not leaving on the campus. I was away from
most of that, you know, not being there at night.
All right, then my last question is, what feelings
do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M today? How
do you feel about the place now? Well, of course, I
still think it's the greatest place a person can
get an education. And I've been, a lot of my buddies
think letting girls go there is the worst thing
that ever happened. And I'm not of that vocation. I
think it's made the university. It's made the
place. Right now, it'd be a little one-horse
school if it wasn't. But that's one of the big
things, in my opinion, and I give credit to Mr.
Rutter. He and I were awful good friends. Describe
examples of that friendship. Well, we worked
together a whole lot, see.